procedures: update admin docs for storage classes, storage strategies and storage size (#2536)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/administration-guide/pages/configuring-che-storage-strategy.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
:description: Configuring the storage strategy in {prod-short} 
:keywords: administration guide, configuring, {prod-short}, storage, strategy
:navtitle: Configuring the storage strategy in {prod-short}
:page-aliases: installation-guide:configuring-che-storage-strategy.adoc

[id="configuring-{prod-id-short}-storage-strategy"]
= Configuring the storage strategy in {prod-short}

> {prod-short} can be configured to provide persistent or non-persistent storage to workspaces by selecting a storage strategy. The selected storage strategy will be applied to all newly created workspaces by default. Users can opt for a non-default storage strategy for their workspace in their xref:end-user-guide:requesting-persistent-storage-for-workspaces.adoc[devfile] or through the xref:end-user-guide:url-parameter-for-the-workspace-storage.adoc[URL parameter].

Author: While working on this, I realized that the documentation on requesting persistent storage for workspaces with a devfile (`requesting-persistent-storage-for-workspaces.adoc`) also should probably be updated to reference the [DevWorkspace Operator storage strategy attribute](https://github.com/devfile/devworkspace-operator/blob/main/docs/additional-configuration.adoc#configuring-persistent-storage-used-for-a-devworkspace)

Reviewer: Please do if you can. Otherwise, please open another issue so that it can be assigned to someone to work on at a later time.

Author: I've created https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/22316 to track this issue and determine if it is valid, as it may not be something Che users need to know about.

> .Available storage strategies:

Reviewer: Same comment as for https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs/pull/2536/files#r1157449191.

* `per-user`: Use a single PVC for all workspaces created by a user.
* `per-workspace`: Each workspace is given its own PVC.
* `ephemeral`: Non-persistent storage; any local changes will be lost when the workspace is stopped.

The default storage strategy used in {prod-short} is `per-user`. 

> .Procedure

Reviewer: Same comment as in https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs/pull/2536/files#r1157451521.

> Use CheCluster Custom Resource definition to define the storage strategy:

Reviewer: Same comment as in https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs/pull/2536/files#r1157461859.

> Set the `pvcStrategy` field in the Che Cluster Custom Resource to `per-user`, `per-workspace` or `ephemeral`. To set this field prior to installing {prod-short}, see xref:using-chectl-to-configure-the-checluster-custom-resource-during-installation.adoc[], otherwise consult xref:using-the-cli-to-configure-the-checluster-custom-resource.adoc[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the `pvcStrategy` field in the Che Cluster Custom Resource to `per-user`, `per-workspace` or `ephemeral`.

[NOTE]
====

* You can set this field at installation. See xref:using-chectl-to-configure-the-checluster-custom-resource-during-installation.adoc[].

* You can update this field on the command line. See xref:using-the-cli-to-configure-the-checluster-custom-resource.adoc[].

====

```
